# PSO-GCDA-
Synthetic biology aims to design and build gene circuits for a wide variety of different tasks. Whilst current approaches often employ an initial human designed circuit topology and utilise iterative approaches such as directed evolution to fine-tune part function a more streamlined workflow is highly desirable. By utilising Particle Swarm Optimization we present a potential computational solution which can generate a circuit with an optimized topology and parameter set given a user defined target output and allowed number of genes.

Gene circuits can be represented as network graphs in which nodes represent genes or inputs andan edge from node A to node B represents a regulation of the expression of species B by speciesA. The set of all gene circuits containing g genes and i inputs can be represented as subgraphs ofa gene circuit supergraph. A gene circuit supergraph is a directed graph consisting of g + i nodesand g2+ ig edges. Each of the g gene nodes has an edge going to each other gene node and anedge going to itself. Each of the i input nodes has an edge going to each of the gene nodes.

In order to obtain usable information about the behaviour of gene circuits to inform the design process we employ a system of ordinary differential equations (ODE) to represent genes and their regulatory interactions.

Having created a model to quantify the function of an arbitrary gene circuit we now need to optimize the circuit for a specific task. To carry out our optimization we employ Particle Swarm Optimization a well known meta-heauristic optimization technique inspired by the movement of flocking birds.
